# Understanding Current Exoplanet Populations Using a Little Monte Carlo

> Hello there! I created this code with two goals in mind: __to use a computational method in physics to better understand it, and to use real data to understand some of what we know today about the general question of habitability__. Since this is being created with a deadline for a class, and for people that are new to the field of exoplanets, and particular the question of habitability, I will be restricting the question we ask today to this - using the current database of exoplanets we have detected and confirmed within a small region of the Milky Way Galaxy, __how can we understand the potential for Earth-like habitable planets__? The likelihood? 

> To do so, we will use Earth as a comparison point throughout the notebook, and explore the population using mass and radius first, then stellar parameters. Looking at our Solar System, we know that the Earth is unique in its composition, temperature, size, and location. We will start with a dataset provided by using the [NASA Exoplanet Archive](https://exoplanetarchive.ipac.caltech.edu/index.html), ensure that the dataset we actually use has both mass and radius for each planet entry, and then use a Monte Carlo sampling method to randomly select planets and their systems. We will then take those planets, and narrow them down to what the [Planetary Habitability Laboratory @ UPR Arecibo](https://phl.upr.edu/projects/habitable-exoplanets-catalog) considers apt mass and radius ranges, and reselect (randomly, again) some planets from within that range to see which, if any, fall within a Goldilocks zone from their host star/s - the area that surrounds that "just right" spot that Earth lives in. Maybe then we might find some optimism or skepticism about the question of whether we have the most unique planet out there!

> To dig deeper into the resources used and ranges used, there are papers provided in the "Papers" folder of the Github repository.
